# Version 1.0
## Basic concepts:
***Note that this reference document assumes the default values for all settings in conf.yaml***

All endpoints listed here must be prefixed with `https://example.com/api/v2/`  
"User" can refer to any entity that uses the API.


### Authentication:
All requests to the API must be made with the following parameters:  
`id=abc123` where abc123 is the ID of the system or client  
`auth=password12` where password12 is the user's auth code  
Any requests missing these parameters will return a `401 Unauthorized` http response, and will be ignored.  
client auth codes provide read-only access to the database  
system auth codes provide write-only access, and only to their own data  
admin auth codes provide read-write access to the entire database, and can create new system or client users.  
Owner auth codes provide read-write access to the entire database, and can create new system, client, or admin users.  

## Available endpoints:


### update/heartbeat [GET, POST]:
**Access Level:** system  
**Arguments:**  
None  

**Returns:**  
`200 OK`.


### update/main [GET, POST]:
**Access Level:** system  
**Arguments:**
- value
  - The value name to update (eg. ips, disk, cpu_temps)
- data
   - json, the data to be logged for the value name supplied

**Returns:**  
`200 OK`.


### update/logging [POST]:
**Access Level:** system  
**Arguments:**
- data
   - string, data to be appended to the logfile of the system associated with the provided credentials 

**Returns:**  
`200 OK`.  


### general/check_auth [GET, POST]:
**Access Level:** any  
**Arguments:**  
None  
**Returns:**  
`200 OK` if the provided credentials exist in the database, otherwise `401 Unauthorized` if they don't


### admin/new_auth [GET, POST]
**Access Level:** admin/owner  
**Arguments:**
- access_level
  - string, the access level that the new credentials should have. Admin credentials can create system or client credentials, and Owner credentials can create Admin, client, or system credentials.   
    Creating new credentials with the access level of Owner must be done by manually editing the database file.

**Returns:**  
A JSON dictionary containing the keys `id` (the id for the newly created credentials) and `auth` (The auth code for the newly created credentials)


### fetch/main [GET, POST]
**Access level:** client/admin/owner  
**Arguments:**  
- system_id  
  - string, The id of the system that you want the data for  
- value
  - string, The name of the value that you want. Can be any value that has previously been logged for that system using /api/v2/update/main.  

**Returns:**  
The data in JSON format


## Suggested value names and formats
- ips   
  - list of IPs assigned to the system 
- public_ips
  - list of public IPs assigned to the system 
- cpu_temps 
  - dictionary containing CPUs->Cores->temps (celcius). Eg. `{"CPU0": {"CORE0": 50, "CORE1": 48}}`
- gpu_temps
  - dictionary containing GPUs->Cores->temps (celcius). Eg. `{"GPU0": {"CORE0": 50, "CORE1": 48}}`
- disk 
  - dictionary containing Disks->total,used,free (MB). Eg. `{"SDA1": {"total": 1024, "used": 500, "free": 524}}`
- memory
  - dictionary containing MEMTYPE->total,used,free (MB). Eg. `{"physical": {"total": 1024, "used": 500, "free": 524}, "swap": {"total": 1024, "used": 500, "free": 524}}`
